You've heard that any
sufficiently advanced technology
is indistinguishable from magic.
Well,
there's been some technology lurking
under the covers in Mac OS X for
a while that some people have
said seems pretty close to magic.
It's called Latent Semantic Mapping.
And today,
we're going to release that magic
so that you guys can build that
magic into your applications.
We've applied Latent Semantic
Mapping to quite a range of problems.
We'll show you junk mail filtering.
We'll show you how it enabled
us to achieve the world's best
Japanese text input method.
Thank you.
Kida-san, Kida-san, the guy.
So let's get into it.
I'm delighted to be here today,
and I'm delighted to be able to
introduce the senior engineer who
is the architect of the code base,
Dr.
Matthias Neeracher.
Thank you, Kim.
Good afternoon, everybody.
I'm really thrilled to be
here today and talk to you
about Latent Semantic Mapping,
or as we affectionately call it, LSM.
We're unfortunately not quite
important enough to be renamed to
Core Semantics or something like that.
So this afternoon I would like to talk
to you about what LSM is and I actually
am going to start with a toy example just
to give you an idea of what it could do.
Then we're going to bring up somebody who
can explain you how it actually works.
I'm going to talk about how to use
the LSM API or APIs that we have.
We're going to present
some internal case studies,
how we've used it.
Then we're going to talk about
what's really interesting for you,
what it can do for you,
how you can use it in your applications.
And we're going to have extended time
for questions and answers at the end.
So if you have questions,
you're going to get a chance
to ask them at the end.
So what is LateN Semantic Mapping?
In the most general and abstract terms,
LateN Semantic Mapping is a
technology to analyze data and
classify it into categories.
Now that's awfully abstract and general.
So in fact,
it's probably going to be easier if
I just give you a brief example of this.
So could I have the
demo machine on screen?
Thank you very much.
So one of the things we've done with
the Latent Semantic Mapping framework
is we've tried to make pretty much
the whole API available as a shell,
as a command line tool, as well.
So you can prototype your
applications very easily,
especially if they are text-based.
And you can quickly find out whether
an ID is going to work out or not.
And in fact,
certain parts of your application,
if you do pre-training,
you might never have to write to
the C API for an app to do that.
You could just do it in a shell script.
So I'm going to demonstrate how
to use the Latent Semantic Mapping
command line tool to do a simple
categorization task to be able
to tell apart Objective-C header.
If you see a .h file,
is it Objective-C or is it C?
So we're going to train up a
little map to tell those apart.
[Transcript missing]
So first thing we need
to do is to create a map.
And the command line
tool is just called lsm.
We want to create a map
and we have two categories:
Objective C versus C.
Each of those has a number of files.
We separate it to two groups
of files with a semicolon,
so we say categories.
are separated by a group delimiter,
a semicolon, and we're going to call the
map Objective C versus C.
So let's pick a rich, juicy source of
Objective-C headers to train up.
Let's pick the foundation headers.
So we have the semicolon.
Now we're going to bring
in a source of C headers.
Let's pick Audio Toolbox.
Now, it's going to parse a couple
dozen headers for each side.
It's going to put these into a map.
It's going to compile the map,
which is a complex mathematical process.
So it's going to take some time,
let's say a couple hundred milliseconds.
Okay, we're done.
We have a map that, in its 300 kilobytes,
incorporates everything there is
to know about telling apart an
objective C header from a C header.
Now I'm going to prove that it works.
For that,
we are going to do LSM Evaluate.
And now let's pick a framework
where you might not know in advance
whether it's Objective-C or C.
So for that, let's pick Core Data.
Yes?
Sure.
Thanks, Kim.
That was a little bit too big.
Now let's evaluate all of these
headers and core data and see
whether LateN Semantic Mapping
places them in category 1,
Objective C, or in category 2, C.
Oops.
And it would help to type this correctly.
OK, so we have core data dot h.
As you see,
category one wins quite decisively.
We're going to talk a little bit
later about what these course means.
What's important to know
is category one wins.
Now, core data defines.
Blueprint semantic mapping unfortunately
thinks that this is a plain C file.
Category two wins.
However, this is not unfortunate.
This is, in fact, a plain C file.
It just has a couple of defines in it.
And all the other headers you see,
category one, category one,
all of these are Objective-C.
Now, you might be saying,
I could have done that with a grep.
Or I could have told that by
looking at the file name and
saying that it starts with ns.
And you would be absolutely
right if you said that.
The point here is not that this
is a particularly hard task.
The point here is that we were
able to train this up without
any domain-specific knowledge.
We just fed the LateN Semantic
Mapping system a bunch of
files from each category,
and it was able to pick out
which file belonged where.
And as my colleague is
going to explain later,
this was not even a particularly
well-chosen example.
Could we go back to the slides, please?
Thank you.
So you've seen what it does.
Now, that was the black box for you.
We're going to pry that box open.
And for that,
I would like to bring up my colleague,
Jerome Bellegarda,
the Apple's distinguished scientist
who brought this technology to Apple.
Jerome?
Thank you, Matthias.
Good afternoon.
Delighted to be here.
Actually, my job is very simple,
because how it works,
it's all in the name.
Latent semantic mapping.
So first of all, it's a mapping.
And what we're going to do is we're
going to go from discrete words and
documents into a mathematical space
which is multidimensional in general.
In the examples that I'm going
to go through in this session,
that's all going to be low dimensional,
typically three
dimensional so we can see.
But in general,
it's going to be multidimensional.
And this space is going to be--
the particularity of this space is
that it's going to be continuous,
which makes it easy to
compare things in this space.
LSM also has the word semantic in it,
which means that this mapping is going
to be based on the overall content and
meaning buried inside the document.
Sometimes not even in an obvious way,
which is the part that is latent.
And the way we're going to
uncover those relationships,
which are sometimes hidden,
is we're going to look at words
that co-occur with each other.
Exactly which co-occur with what.
So for example,
if you look at the document and you
see the words maybe bank and interest,
it doesn't tell you much about
what the document is all about.
If you further see rate and money,
then you know that it's probably having
something to do with your finances.
If on the other hand,
you see bank and interest,
and then later on river and trout,
then it's probably some sort
of article about the outdoors
and fishing in particular.
And so that's really the basis
of latent semantic mapping.
We're going to try to uncover those
hidden relationships between the words.
So in the next few slides,
I'm going to go through each
of those three aspects of LSM,
mapping, semantic, and latent.
Let's start with the mapping.
So as I mentioned at the beginning,
we're going to have some documents.
Maybe we have the finance documents
and some fishing documents,
like I was talking just the slide before.
We may have some other things,
like computer science documents,
maybe some hunting documents, and so on.
And what we want to do is we want
to map those documents onto a space,
multidimensional space.
In that case,
it's going to be just three-dimensional.
And so imagine in that space,
we have corners, so to speak,
regions in that space,
which corresponds to
what we're interested in.
So there will be a finance corner
and maybe a computer science corner.
So what we want to do is take each
of those documents and map them into
the appropriate corner of the space.
And that's a process called training.
That's what happens
when you create a map,
just like Mathias did a few minutes ago.
And so we're trying to do that.
We're training.
So we are mapping all those
documents on two points in the space.
And hopefully,
once we are done with that,
we have all those little triangles here,
the red triangles,
which are representation of each of
the documents that we started out with.
Now, the problem is now we
have a new document.
And we haven't seen it before.
And what we want to do is we want
to classify the document against the
LSM space that we've just created.
And that's what the lsmevaluate command
that Mathias just presented to you does.
So in this case, we are just mapping that
document onto the space.
And in this particular case,
as you can see, it's aligned with the
computer science cluster.
So we can reasonably conclude that this
document has to do with computer science.
That's the mapping part.
Now, let's take a look at the semantic.
And for this, I would like to just
bring out a case study.
And that's the junk mail filter,
the one that you have on
your machines right now.
And so when we started
working on a junk mail filter,
we decided to do something a
little bit different from what was
the state of the art at the time.
And at the time,
the state of the art was, well,
you look for keywords in your message.
So if you see the keyword
"sex," for example,
then you might possibly see some
sort of junk message or whatever.
But in fact,
we wanted to go beyond that and try
to assess whether the whole topic,
not just a few keywords,
but the whole topic of the message
was consistent with the user interest.
Because after all,
you could have sex education,
which might be a legitimate topic.
So to do that, we used an LSM strategy,
which is to encapsulate what the user
likes and what he dislikes inside of
the LSM space that you saw before.
And so in that particular case,
we used two categories,
one for junk and one for legitimate.
And the implementation
in this particular case,
of course, the space is very simple.
It has just two dimensions.
And so we defined within
that space two points.
We call that anchor, semantic anchors,
one that represents the
junkness of the collection,
training collection,
and one that represents the
legitimacy of the collection.
And then what we have to do now is
every time we have a message coming in,
we just evaluate whether it's
closer to one or the other.
So let's take a look at what
happens in this simple case.
So we have this space,
which is two dimensional.
And we have three kinds
of entities in that space.
We have the legitimate semantic anchor,
which might be somewhere in here.
And you can think of it as the
centroid of all the messages that
we've seen in the training collection
that were marked as legitimate.
Then we have the junk anchor,
which might fall somewhere here.
And again,
you can think of it as the centroid
of all those messages that were junk.
And then we have the incoming message,
which falls somewhere in that space.
And so now what LSM does, very simple,
it looks at distances.
It looks at which
anchor is it closest to.
In this particular case,
you can see that it's
closer to the junk anchor.
And so LSM would assign to that
particular junk category a higher score.
And that's what you saw in the simple
example that Mathias went through.
So that's the semantic part.
Now let's take a look.
Oh, before we go on,
I'd like to just mention,
a little bit of bragging here,
the performance of our junk mail filter.
We did quite a number of
experiments along the years to
validate that this LSM approach,
which again was a little bit
different from the state of the art,
is actually competitive
with the state of the art.
And as you can see,
we got on different databases,
including some very standard databases
that are used in the literature.
We got performance that is
equal or better than the
competitive methods out there,
which are typically based
on what you may have seen
referred to as Bayesian methods.
And an advantage of the junk mail filter,
in addition, is that it's adaptive.
It's very easy to reconfigure the
LSM space in order to track the
user's interest as they evolve.
They may be interested in another topic,
or they may lose interest in a topic,
and so on and so forth.
And we are able to model all of this.
And of course, as you know,
junk mail filter has been integrated
into Mac OS X since Jaguar.
So now let me say a word about latent.
And for this, I thought I would go
through an actual example,
the kind of example that
Mathias went through,
but a little bit,
perhaps a little bit richer,
where we have four
categories in that example.
So think of it as a four
feature calendar management.
It's a calendar where you
can only do four things.
It's elementary, but I think it will
make the point nicely.
So in that particular calendar system,
you can issue four commands, or queries,
if you will.
You can ask what time
it is at the moment.
You can ask what day it is.
You can ask what time
is a particular meeting,
and you can cancel that meeting.
And that's all you can say.
And so we're going to use an LSM strategy
to try to approach that problem.
And so we're going to use one category,
one category per feature,
which means in that space,
we're going to have
four semantic anchors.
And again,
because it's a very simple problem,
it's going to be a
two-dimensional LSM space.
But instead of having
two semantic anchors,
like in the junk mail filter,
now we have four.
And then again,
we're going to evaluate whatever the user
decides to issue as a query or a command.
We're going to evaluate that
input against the four anchors.
will tell us actually what we need to do.
how LSM works.
So why did I choose
this particular example,
which is not very realistic?
Well, as I mentioned,
it's got four categories.
Now let's assume the user wants
to know what time is the meeting,
but he messes up.
You know, users always mess up.
He messes up,
and instead of inputting what time is
the meeting as the application demands,
he says something like
when is the meeting.
So we have to classify that input
against the four categories.
So let me point out why
this is a difficult task.
Well, first of all,
different words in this example have
very different predictive power.
For example, the appears everywhere,
which means it has zero predictive power.
All you know is the.
You cannot tell which command
it is or which query it is.
However, they and console each predict a
particular query or command well.
And so those two words
have high predictive power.
There are all kinds of all manners
of co-occurrences and overlaps.
What is the, for example,
occur in three of the four categories?
And then, of course, we have ambiguities,
because meeting, for example,
occurs also in two of the categories.
And then, of course,
the big one is that when
has never been seen.
In fact, it's not even part of the
underlying vocabulary.
And so we don't know what
the system will do with that.
Well, let's take a look.
So in this particular example, again,
it's so simple that we in two dimensions.
We have the first LSM dimension
and the second LSM dimension.
And then we have one thing
that I didn't make clear,
perhaps, is that you can map the
categories in that space.
You can also map the words.
So let's take a look at.
How the words map in that space.
Those are the words.
And I mentioned the.
As you remember,
the occurred in all the categories,
which means it has zero predictive power.
That's why it sits right
there at the origin.
I also mentioned they, a console.
I mentioned that those words
had high predictive power.
And in fact,
that's why they align along-- they have
high coordinate along one dimension
and a low coordinate against the other.
They align against the
principal component,
if you will.
And then the rest of the words
fall somewhere in the middle.
And I'd like to point out that
what and is fall right on top
of each other in that space,
because of course, they always co-occur.
And here are the queries and commands,
the four categories, if you will,
what we would refer to as the
semantic anchors in that case.
So not surprisingly,
what is the day falls very close to day.
Because that's the command that
is predicted by it the best.
And similarly, with console.theMeeting,
the other ones fall
somewhere in the middle.
You'll see that they fall
within the vicinity-- well,
in the vicinity of
their constituent words.
Now the question is,
what about this new wording,
this variant that the user introduced?
What can LSM do to classify it?
Well, first of all,
it maps it into that space,
and that's what it's going to do.
It's going to map it
to the data that falls.
Again, that's an actual example.
And so you can see now that
when we look at the distances
to the various semantic anchors,
we see that the query that would be
predicted on the basis of this mapping
would be what time is the meeting.
That's where the latent part of
latent semantic analysis comes in.
Because in a sense, that means that in a
very data-driven way,
what the system has figured
out is that when is a synonym
So that's pretty close to magic.
But as-- Thank you.
But as Kim mentioned at the beginning,
it's not all magic.
There is some very sound mathematical
principles behind all of this.
And I'm going to try to
give you a flavor of that.
The basic information that we rely
on when we do this maneuvering is
we are trying to see how often each
word appears in each category and
contrast this with how often each word
appears in the entire training data.
That's kind of the
bread and butter of LSM.
And we arrange that information.
So we go through each of the
words in the training data,
and we try to keep track
of this information.
And then we arrange it in a matrix,
which looks something like this.
So here we have M is the size
of the underlying vocabulary.
That's how many unique words do you
have in your training collection.
And then you arrange
them in rows like this.
Then N would be the number
of categories you have.
So in a previous example, I had four.
And so you arrange now your
categories in columns like this.
And so each category now is
sort of a vector of numbers,
each number representing roughly the
number of times that this particular
word occurred in this particular
category with some appropriate weighting.
So this gives us a representation
of each word and each document.
Each word is sort of a row of numbers,
and each category is a column of number.
However, you'll notice they don't evolve
in the same spaces because they
all have the same dimensions.
And furthermore,
those numbers are mostly-- I mean,
many of them are zero because, after all,
most words don't appear
in most documents,
in most categories.
And so we're going to go
through a particular trick here,
which is from linear algebra,
which is called singular
value decomposition,
which we're going to take that matrix--
let's call it W-- and then we're going to
decompose it onto different sub-matrices.
And the important thing to
realize is that each word,
which was at the beginning represented
by a long vector here of sparse vectors,
is now going to be associated
with a vector of now dense values.
And similarly,
each category here is now associated
with a vector of dense values here.
That's all that matters.
And the important thing is now r,
which is the number of dimensions
that are retained by this procedure,
is now much smaller than either m,
the size of a vocabulary, or n,
the number of categories.
That's really the power of this mapping,
if you will.
And so when we do this-- the LSM space
that we had before-- remember,
we had a bunch of documents,
and we were mapping it
into categories and so on.
And then we had a new document.
We were classifying it and so on.
Well,
it turns out we can also extract all
the words appearing in the document.
And as part of this decomposition,
we also have values for the words,
which are embedded in that space.
So now we can ask ourselves
several questions.
Given this representation
for the new-- document here,
we can say, well,
which is the topic of this new document?
And the answer would be
the closest category,
just like we saw for junk mail.
But we could also ask ourselves,
what is the single word that
best describes that document?
And the answer would be the
closest word in the LSM space.
That's in a nutshell.
Thank you.
That's what LSM is all about-- computing
distances in a mathematical space.
Now, of course,
that sounds like pretty neat technology,
and so on, so forth.
However, there are some caveats.
This is not going to solve
all the problems of the world.
For example, LSM has a somewhat
limited descriptive power,
in the sense that, for example,
the semantic part of
it is heavily tied to,
well, co-occurrences between words.
So that's what we call shallow in an
artificial intelligence kind of way,
as opposed to deep parsing
and things of that nature.
The second limiting factor,
or characteristic of LSM,
turns out it could be a
strength also in some ways,
is that word order is ignored,
meaning that it doesn't matter that
two words co-occur near each other,
or one is at the beginning and the
other one is at the end of a document.
It doesn't matter as
long as they co-occur.
So.
In fact-- In fact,
they could appear in reversed order,
and so on, so forth.
That wouldn't matter.
And of course, this decomposition
that I've talked about,
the singular value decomposition,
that's a linear algebra operation.
So it assumes that everything
is nice and linear.
And of course, the world is not linear.
So you could also bump
into some limitation there.
Another thing to note is that
LSM is a statistical method.
And as-- As such-- As such,
it works as well as the training
data on which it is trained.
And so, for example,
I mentioned the bank and interest and
river at the beginning of the talk.
Well, imagine now that we have
a single document in which
river bank appears and Bank of
America appears in the same document.
That would be very difficult to
infer from that document which
bank we are talking about here,
because the two senses would co-occur.
So again, it's very important to have
good training data so that the
categories are well separated.
And it turns out that this method is
also somewhat sensitive to writing style.
You can certainly appreciate that
the style in which you write an email
would be very different from the
style in which Mac OS Help is written,
for example.
And this is also-- this influences
the information that LSM finds.
And finally, I just want to mention
that in some applications,
there is some training cost in doing
this singular value decomposition,
especially if the
underlying matrix is large.
So that's also something to keep in mind.
Of course,
in an application like junk mail,
that wasn't an issue because
the dimension was so small.
So in the rest of my contribution here,
I just would like to go through
a couple of guidelines to let you
know what you can do's and don'ts
of being successful with LSM.
So the first, and perhaps more important,
is that you have this cool technology
that you've learned about at WWDC.
You want to go back and try it
on the application you have.
Well,
is it really the right tool for the job?
That's the first question.
Can LSM handle the task?
If the problem you're trying to
solve is syntactic in nature,
such as finding dates or
times or email addresses,
or whether it's Objective-C versus C,
right, Matthias?
Then that's probably
not the right approach,
because you can use grep.
So you have to make sure that the
problem is semantic in nature.
So if your problem is,
I have a bunch of documents.
I'd like to sort them by topic.
Now that's semantic.
So that's a problem for which
LSM would be well indicated.
So that's the first guideline.
Ask yourself,
is the task really suitable for LSM?
Second is-- and I've already
touched upon that-- are the
categories distinct enough?
After all, you're trying to classify,
which means you're trying to have
the categories as different as
possible in order to do a good job.
If they overlap, you can't do a good job.
And so, for example,
if you had a bunch of documents
talking about economy and a bunch
of documents talking about business,
and you would like to separate them,
yeah,
probably can't do a very good job of it.
However, if you have a bunch of documents
talking about economy versus a bunch of
documents talking about entertainment,
well, sure enough,
you'll have the odd document
that sort of overlaps.
But by and large, you'll do a much better
job of classifying.
So here, that's the second guideline.
Now, I'd like to say a few
words about training.
In terms of both the quality
of the training data,
that is, the training data,
as I've already mentioned
it a little bit,
it has to be representative of the
variety that you can find in the domain.
So if you forget something,
like in the example
I had at the beginning,
if you don't have a category
for computer science,
well,
obviously you're not going to be able to
classify documents on computer science.
The data has to be clean for
the purpose of classification,
meaning that you have to remove
things that don't matter,
for example, HTML tags.
If you happen to have them,
they are not germane
to the classification,
why keep them?
Fixing typos is sometimes important,
sometimes not, depending.
In the Jack May filter,
we kept the typos, of course.
And also,
the various categories have to be--
the training data-- the training data
has to be balanced in each of them.
That's important because, remember,
you're trying to compare the number
of times that words appear in each
category versus the number of times
they appear in the entire training data.
So the more balanced the training
data is across all the categories,
the better,
the more unbiased you're going
to be in the classification.
So that was the quality.
It's also important to talk
about quantity of training data.
Of course, it has to be large enough
to cover all the variability
that you expect in your data.
And for a junk mail filter localization,
for example,
our rule of thumb was that we wanted
to have about 30,000 unique words
in the underlying vocabulary across
the entire training collection.
That's the M, the size of the vocabulary,
the M value that I was
talking about before.
Now, of course,
this value has to be larger
as more categories are added,
and larger still if the
data changes over time,
because again, like news,
you have new information
coming in all the time.
You want to be able to
take advantage of it.
Now in terms of testing,
it's also important.
Again, this is a statistical method,
so you have to test the
performance of the technique.
And the way to do that is
to use validation data.
So the way we like to do things at
Apple is we take the training data,
we partition it into chunks,
typically 10,
and then we train on the first nine and
test on the last and see what happens.
The last chunk is called
the held-out data.
It's important to have held-out data
because if you test on the training,
you cannot predict the performance
you're going to get on something
you haven't seen before.
And in fact,
we even go further than that.
We also repeat sequentially
on all those chunks.
It's called round-robin.
So now you train on the last nine
and you test on the first and so on,
and you permutate.
And then we average all the results,
and that gives us a better
predictor of the performance.
now what if you do all those things and
the outcome looks still somewhat weird
well first of all check the previous
guidelines you know was was the task
appropriate for lsm and so on so forth
another thing is to try with a short
stop word list there are words like the
or in or of that are likely to appear
pretty much in the same way across all
the categories and they tend to not be
very informative and furthermore they
tend to muddy the results so sometimes
we get better results by removing them
try experimenting with the number of
dimensions that are retained because
sometimes like the the default that we
set in the in the in the framework is the
number r that i was talking about before
defaults to the number of categories so
in the junkbait filter for example that
would be two but for natural language
problems like the ones that kidasana
is going to talk about later typically
we want r to be between 100 and 300.
Finally, because remember LSM doesn't
keep track of world order,
so sometimes it's valuable to keep
track of the most frequent world pairs.
For example,
you can appreciate that a blowtorch,
for example,
may occur in a context which is quite
different from just blow and just torch.
I had actually a better
example with blow,
but it was forbidden to use it here.
Same thing, if it's important to use
New York City as a single entity,
then by all means add it to the data.
But make sure that you do this sparingly,
because obviously this will impact
the dimension of your matrix,
and therefore it could impact
the computational cost.
And that's pretty much
all I wanted to say.
One more thing.
And that is that it's often to your
advantage to integrate LSM with
other sources of knowledge.
Because of the semantic
approach that LSM takes,
it tends to complement other techniques
that are not based on semantics.
And so it can often improve the
robustness of the overall system if
you combine LSM with other things.
And I'd like to offer two examples.
The junk mail filter complements,
instead of replacing,
things that are normally
done in a spam filtering,
like whitelist and blacklist
and unwritten rule.
The junk mail filter comes
after all of those things,
not instead of.
It's just an additional
source of knowledge.
And similarly,
in the Kanata-Kanji conversion,
which we're going to talk to
you about in a little bit,
LSM is just one of several
sources of information.
information that is being exploited.
And so that concludes what I wanted
to say about how LSM works,
and I'd like to turn it
over to Matthias once again,
who's going to talk to us
about how to use the API.
Thank you.
Thank you very much, Jerome.
Now you've heard how it works.
Now we are going to hear
how to make it work for you.
Now, the first point I would
like to reiterate,
it's always cheaper not to
use the API than to use it.
It's often a lot easier to
use the command line tool to
prototype instead of using the API.
However, at some point,
if it works for you, you're going to want
to use the actual API.
Our API is core foundation-based,
so our main data types
are core foundation types.
You can retain them,
you can release them,
you can put them into containers.
Our three types in the
API are the LSM map,
so you see...
Latent Semantic Mapping really revolves
around the lifecycle of an LSM map.
You create the map,
you train it by adding data to it,
you compile it,
then you evaluate it with data,
you can archive it to disk,
load it back in.
Whenever you're dealing with data,
whether it's for training
or for evaluation,
You're using an LSM text to represent
the document that you're going to
use for training or for evaluation.
And finally, on evaluation,
you're getting back an
LSM result from the evaluation.
So let's start at the
beginning of the lifecycle.
You create an LSM map,
and here we finally come to the
all-important blue boxes on the slides.
You create an LSM map.
By calling LSM Map Create,
and like any creation API in
the core foundation space,
you can pass in any allocator,
but for most purposes it's good
to pass in the default allocator,
also affectionately known
by its friends as null.
You can optionally pass
in a number of flags.
Here, as an example,
we've passed in the flag map pairs,
which will allow you to map a
pair of words like blowtorch as a
single unit and keep track of that.
In most cases,
you don't actually need these flags,
so it's okay to pass in zero.
Now you've created an empty map.
Your next job is to fill it up.
You add categories by
calling lsm_map_add_category.
You're going to get back an integer
which identifies the category.
You then add data to the
map by creating an lsm_text,
by adding a number of words to
the text and having them parsed.
And then by adding the text to the
map in one particular category.
Now let's look at that in
a little bit more detail.
The text you add is
passed in as a CFString.
You also can pass in a locale identifier,
but we would not necessarily
advise you to do so.
The default is going
to work out quite well.
And furthermore,
like most of the LSM calls,
you can pass in a number of flags.
Here we're passing in a flag,
LSM text preserve case,
which means instead of just
mapping everything to lowercase
as we normally would in this case,
we would like to preserve the case.
We're going to talk about
some other flags later.
Once you're done adding words,
you add the text to the map.
Here we say,
"This text is one of the good guys.
This belongs in the good category."
So we add it to the good category.
Once we've done that,
we have no more need for the text,
we can release it.
Now, this is the case where
LSM parses the text for you.
There might be more subtle
situations where you would like
to do the parsing yourself,
in which case,
instead of calling add words,
you call add word,
which doesn't do any case mapping,
doesn't do any transformation whatsoever.
It just takes the CFString you
pass into it as the gospel truth,
adds it to the map,
or adds it to the text.
You don't even have to use words.
You can also, if necessary,
you can use binary tokens,
because deep down inside,
LSM doesn't care what you
give it as identifiers.
All that matters is an
identity comparison.
Does it compare equal
to another token or not?
For that,
you have to call LSM text add token.
Once you're done training,
you compile the map.
This is LSM map compile.
The example I've shown to you,
this takes a couple hundred milliseconds,
or maybe a couple milliseconds.
In mail,
after each message gets evaluated,
when you click the chunk button,
the map gets recompiled.
I very much doubt that any of you
have ever sat in front of your
computer and twiddled your thumbs
while the map was recompiled.
However, I should point out that in
natural language problems,
when there are large and sparse maps,
that can actually take an
appreciable amount of time.
Now you have a compiled map,
now you're in a situation to evaluate.
For evaluating,
first thing you do is create
a text that looks exactly
the same way as for training.
You create the text, you add words to it,
you add single words to it,
you add tokens to it.
And finally,
the all-important evaluation result
you get by calling lsm_result_create.
You pass to it the map,
you pass the text you
want to evaluate against,
You pass the maximum number of
categories you would like in the results.
If you're kind of have a
winner-takes-all mentality,
then passing in one would
be the right thing to do.
If you're always
second-guessing yourself,
you're passing in two.
And if you want to know
the total rankings,
you're maybe passing in a thousand
if you have a thousand categories.
Again,
there is a final argument for flags,
which in most cases are
not going to be used,
but we are going to present one situation
where they are going to be used.
At that point you have no
longer a need for the text,
but you're going to have to extract
what the result actually says.
So, you're calling routines
like get_category,
which takes the result and it
takes the index into the result.
So, get_category result 0 gives you
back the number of the index of the
best category of that evaluation.
You can also get the floating point score
that we've seen here in this example,
again with an index of 0 to
get the best of those scores.
Passing non-zero indexes to
get second best and so on.
And finally, when you get tired of that,
you throw away the result.
If you feel after evaluating
that you want to add more data,
for instance, in the junk mail example,
you're all trained up and yet you see
another spam or you see a false positive,
you click the junk or not junk button.
The map we call LSM Map Start Training to
put the map back into training state so
you can add more training data to it.
And once you're done,
you call compile again.
Similarly, in many situations,
you don't want to compute
the map on the fly.
Once it's computed, you want to store it.
So you write it out with lsm_map_write
to URL and load it back in
with lsm_map_create from URL.
In some situations,
you know exactly that the only reason
you're loading the map is because you
immediately want to add more data,
in which case you can pass in
the flag KLSM Map Load Mutable.
Normally, when you load from a URL,
you're getting back the
map in evaluation state,
where you can evaluate.
If you say KLSM Map Load Mutable,
you're getting it back in training state,
which in some situations may
save you time and memory.
So that's all there is to the API.
There are a number more calls,
there are properties you can set,
but all of that is pretty easily
discoverable from the documentation
you have received and you should
have with your seed on Xcode.
So how have we used
LateN Semantic Mapping internally?
Our first application was
using LateN Semantic Mapping
for junk mail filtering,
which was an application
designed by my colleagues Devang
Naik and Jerome Bellegarda.
So here, in a way,
it's a very simple application.
You just have two categories.
You have legitimate
mail versus junk mail.
There are a couple of subtleties here.
First of all, getting a false positive,
having a mail that is terribly important
to you classified as junk mail,
is a worse situation than having the
occasional junk mail slip through.
Or at least for many people it is.
So therefore we're not strictly
going by the top result,
being junk.
We're also going to test that
the top result has a confidence
score that is higher than just
the 50% it would need to win.
We want a little bit
level of extra confidence.
Second, as Jerome said,
we're going to use multiple
sources of knowledge.
And one of these sources is if the sender
of a mail appears in your address book,
then we're always going to
err on the side of caution and
think it's a legitimate mail.
Which, as we all know,
is not always true.
But we certainly don't want that.
We don't want to toss a mail
and afterwards it turns out that
you have actually won a prize,
or you were supposed
to come to a meeting,
you have finally secured your mortgage.
So we're going to use the
address book as an indicator
whether a mail is legitimate.
Now, junk mail filtering is also
especially tricky in one regard.
In many semantic applications,
the semantics are just
waiting to be discovered.
This is not the case
in junk mail filtering.
The junk mail senders are going to
great lengths to disguise the fact
that they are sending unwanted mail.
They're not going to proclaim,
this mail here is unwanted.
So, one of the things they do is they
insert punctuation into their words.
You might have seen this,
a dot after each character.
Or they use, for an accent,
they use what we call in the trade
the heavy metal band syndrome.
You insert a couple of extra umlauts and
accents in the hope that your users are
still going to be able to read the text,
but that the junk mail filter
is going to be thrown off.
For that, to counteract that,
one of the flags we have for LSM text ad
words is LSM text apply spam heuristics.
goes through the text with a somewhat,
with an eye to treating
the text as hostile text,
it's going to make a guess that if
it's seeing periods between characters,
it's a longer word that is
just broken up this way.
Or if it sees weird characters that are,
kind of look like letters,
like the copyright sign,
but are not usually treated as letters,
it treats them as letters anyway.
Nice thing is,
this makes the mail even better
trainable because these weird
spellings are going to stand out
like a sore thumb in training.
Another problem we're dealing with
here is that the map potentially
contains a lot of offensive words,
and we don't want a third grader armed
with cat or less to look at the map and
discover all these words that aren't
supposed to be in his vocabulary yet.
So we have a simple flag,
KLSM Map Hash Text,
which is not industrial-grade
cryptography,
but it does the job to secure the
map from the most casual prying eyes.
Finally, you're not really restricted to
using just the text of the mail.
You could use meta information
if you have a tiny one-by-one
picture pointed to by a URL,
what is referred to as a web bug,
I think,
to track whether the message gets read.
That's a piece of information
you can just add to the map
as a pseudo-word tiny picture,
because that's something
that is very trainable.
Overall,
this was still a relatively simple
application of Latent Semantic Mapping.
For a much more involved application,
I would like to bring up
my colleague Kira San,
the manager of OS Engineering Tokyo,
to talk about Japanese input.
Kira San?
Good morning, no, good afternoon.
My name is Yasuo Kida,
and everybody calls me Kidasan.
I'm a manager of OS Engineering Tokyo of
Frameworks Group.
I'll first explain a little bit about
how Japanese input method work first,
and the challenge we faced,
and how we took the advantage
of LSM to tackle the challenge.
You might know Japanese language
uses thousands of characters,
and it doesn't fit in a keyboard.
So how we enter them?
Well,
Japanese input method uses a process
called kana-kanji conversion.
You enter pronunciation using
phonetic characters called kana,
and the input method converts
the input into kanji.
An issue is there's so many
possible conversions and you
need to pick the correct one.
For example,
when you enter the pronunciation,
those are actual possibilities and the
input method chooses the correct one.
This is similar to voice recognition
or handwriting recognition.
It can never be 100% correct,
but accuracy is critical for
the usability of the system.
So, a Japanese input method called Koteri
calculates the probability like this.
It uses a model called Class N-gram.
It looks up each word in the possible
conversion from the dictionary
and get the frequency of it.
And also, it looks at part of speech,
probability of part of speech
connecting each other in a conversion,
and multiply them together to get
the probability of a conversion.
In actual calculation,
we use a value called cost,
which takes logarithm of
the probability value.
So by doing that,
we can add integer together,
add integer together,
instead of multiplying
floating point numbers.
This model works pretty well.
However, there are ambiguities that
cannot be solved by Engram,
because Engram looks
at neighboring words.
For example, in English, if you say,
"What a beautiful tail!"
Is it about the most part of
an animal or about the story?
You don't know.
This ambiguity can be resolved by
knowing a topic of the discourse.
This is where Latent
Semantic Mapping comes in.
For example,
if a word "princess" appears in the text,
most likely the tale is about the
story instead of the tale of an animal.
So we built an LSM map that does this.
We first prepared a Japanese corpus
containing 300,000 documents,
and we clustered them
into 3,000 categories.
The purpose is to capture the
topic in appropriate resolution.
And then we removed words that are
low frequency and removed words that
appear equally in many categories.
For example,
word this or that gives little
information about the topic.
And we set the dimension of
the LSM map 200 like this code.
We called LSM map set
properties with the number 200.
You might wonder how we came
up with those magic numbers,
like category 3,000 categories
or 200 dimensions and so on.
We iterated measurements,
number of categories, 2,000 to 5,000,
threshold for removing
words and dimensions,
and some other parameters in order
to optimize the conversion accuracy
as well as the size of the LSM map.
The size is important because the
size of the LSM map tends to become
very big when you have a large corpus.
So you want to make the
map space efficient.
At runtime, Kotori captures what
you have typed so far,
and that history is
kept for each document.
And when it converts an input stream,
it uses LSM to obtain words that
best match the word's history.
For example,
when you have typed "performance",
"violin", and so on so far,
the LSM map might return those words
like "music", "competition", and
"soprano", and "cella", and so on.
This is a real example that was
returned from Kotori LSM map,
of course translated to English.
And we adjusted the cost of
probable words that appear
in the possible conversions.
And by doing that,
the probability of each word is now
aligned with the topic of the discourse.
And consequently,
the probability of the whole
conversion reflects the topic.
So in a word, LSM boosts the probability
of words that most align with
the topic of the discourse.
And this is exactly what humans do.
And the result?
Kotori version 4 that took advantage
of LSM was ranked number one in
conversion accuracy on a benchmark
conducted by an independent research.
So, thank you.
At the end of the day,
the improvement achieved by
adding LSM is relatively small,
but it was still enough
to pass the competitions.
I hope this gives you a hint of how
you could take advantage of LSM.
Thank you.
Now, Matthias, welcome to the stage.
Thank you very much.
Thank you, Kida-san.
So what has LSM done for you lately?
Maybe it has thrown away
a junk mail for you.
Maybe it has converted some
kana into kanji for you.
But more importantly,
what can LSM do for you?
What can it do for your application?
Latent Semantic Mapping can
categorize lots of things.
Think of bookmarks.
Right now,
In Safari, you're hitting "Add this to my
bookmarks folder" and you're
going to get a pop-up menu that
always starts at the same place.
How about if your web browser fetches
all the web pages in your bookmarks menu,
categorizes them,
and uses that to propose the
category to add your bookmark into?
You could do the same
thing for RSS feeds.
RSS readers are, I think,
a very fluent category right now,
fluid category right now.
You could use it if you
had a library application.
You could use it to categorize books
or CDs or DVDs by fetching book
reviews from a site to categorize.
If you're a yuppie and would like to keep
track of your wine and cheese database,
Be welcome.
If you're a biologist and would like
to categorize your DNA sequence,
are you a man or a mouse?
LateN Semantic Mapping
might be able to tell you.
You're limited only by your
imagination for what you can
use LateN Semantic Mapping for,
and people often ask us,
"Is this a suitable field to apply
LateN Semantic Mapping for?" Ultimately,
it comes down to the tools
are relatively easy to try.
Try it for yourself,
find out whether it works for you.
For more information,
talk to John Galainzi,
our technology manager.
There is a public mailing
list as of today or tomorrow
that you can subscribe to.
And as usual, we have sample code.
We have a brand new sample code
application written by my colleague,
Jia Pu.